docs/sections/6_Examples.rst, before:

Examples
++++++++

This section reproduces the examples provided in the repository (these examples scripts are available in https://github.com/IPESE/REHO/tree/main/scripts/examples).

They should give you a brief overview of REHO's capabilities and to test the various features of the tool.

.. note::
    Since the content of the ``scripts/examples/`` subfolder is git-tracked, you should not modify these files directly, but rather copy their contents into any other subfolder of ``scripts/`` that you have yourself created. The content there (code, data, results, and figures) will be ignored by the git versioning.

1. Building-scale
--------------------

Single-optimization
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/1a_Building-scale_totex.py
   :language: python

Pareto curve
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/1b_Building-scale_Pareto.py
   :language: python

2. District-scale
--------------------

Single-optimization
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/2a_District-scale_totex.py
   :language: python

Pareto curve
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/2b_District-scale_Pareto.py
   :language: python

3. Specific features
--------------------

Load buildings from a .csv file
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3a_Read_csv.py
   :language: python

Add diverse energy layers
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3b_Custom_infrastructure.py
   :language: python

Change heat pump temperature
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3c_HP_T_source.py
   :language: python

Include electric vehicles
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3d_EVs.py
   :language: python

Integrate a district heating network
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3e_DHN.py
   :language: python

Use custom profiles
=====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3f_Custom_profiles.py
   :language: python

Include stochasticity into profiles
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3g_Stochastic_profiles.py
   :language: python

Fix units size
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3h_Fix_units.py
   :language: python

Connect to ELCOM database for electricity prices
===========================================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3i_Electricity_prices.py
   :language: python

Include capacities of networks for imports and exports
===========================================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3j_Transformer_capacities.py
   :language: python

4. Global features
--------------------

Compare various scenarios
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/4a_Progressive_scenarios.py
   :language: python

Conduct a sensitivity analysis
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/4b_Sensitivity_analysis.py
   :language: python

5. Photovoltaics
--------------------

Consider roofs orientation
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/5a_PV_orientation.py
   :language: python

Include photovoltaics on facades
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/5b_PV_facades.py
   :language: python

6. Mobility
--------------------

Add Mobility Layer
====================================
The Layer *Mobility* differs slightly from the other Layers in REHO as this energy carrier is expressed in passenger-kilometers (:math:`pkm`) rather than :math:`kWh`. 
The mobility demand is represented through an hourly passenger-kilometer (:math:`pkm`) profile for each typical day, similarly to the other end-use demand profiles. 
The transport units represented in the model include EVs, ICEs, bikes, electric bikes and public transport. The model can optimize between the different transport modes. However, it is for now recommended to constrain the modal split, as the optimization based on cost does not reflect typical usage of the different transport modes. The `FSO reports <https://www.are.admin.ch/are/fr/home/mobilite/bases-et-donnees/mrmt.html>`_ can be used to find suitable modal split data. 

.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/6a_Mobility_sector.py
   :language: python

Co-optimization
====================================
Multiple districts can be optimized together in order to calculate EV charging exchanges between districts. 
This feature can be used to conduct analyses on EV fleets at the city scale.  
Example 6b demonstrates how to use this feature step by step. Only one district is optimized with external charging option available. The optimized district is also parameterized with a load on EV charger representing incoming EVs from other districts.

7. Interperiod storage
--------------------------

Investigate interperiod storage units in a building facing grid constraints (e.g. a building with limited import or export capacity).

Hydrogen and biomethane storage
====================================

.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/7a_rSOC_IP.py

Hydrogen production and export
====================================

.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/7b_rSOC_H2_export.py

Commit message:

documentation existing units and reinforcement + update example 3h_fix_units

docs/sections/6_Examples.rst, after:

Examples
++++++++

This section reproduces the examples provided in the repository (these examples scripts are available in https://github.com/IPESE/REHO/tree/main/scripts/examples).

They should give you a brief overview of REHO's capabilities and to test the various features of the tool.

.. note::
    Since the content of the ``scripts/examples/`` subfolder is git-tracked, you should not modify these files directly, but rather copy their contents into any other subfolder of ``scripts/`` that you have yourself created. The content there (code, data, results, and figures) will be ignored by the git versioning.

1. Building-scale
--------------------

Single-optimization
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/1a_Building-scale_totex.py
   :language: python

Pareto curve
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/1b_Building-scale_Pareto.py
   :language: python

2. District-scale
--------------------

Single-optimization
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/2a_District-scale_totex.py
   :language: python

Pareto curve
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/2b_District-scale_Pareto.py
   :language: python

3. Specific features
--------------------

Load buildings from a .csv file
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3a_Read_csv.py
   :language: python

Add diverse energy layers
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3b_Custom_infrastructure.py
   :language: python

Change heat pump temperature
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3c_HP_T_source.py
   :language: python

Include electric vehicles
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3d_EVs.py
   :language: python

Integrate a district heating network
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3e_DHN.py
   :language: python

Use custom profiles
=====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3f_Custom_profiles.py
   :language: python

Include stochasticity into profiles
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3g_Stochastic_profiles.py
   :language: python

Fix units size
====================================
The example shows the use of two methods:

- enforcing the size of specific units (method fix_units)
- considering existing units capacity in the optimization using the parameter Units_Ext

.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3h_Fix_units.py
   :language: python

Connect to ELCOM database for electricity prices
===========================================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3i_Electricity_prices.py
   :language: python

Include capacities of networks for imports and exports
===========================================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/3j_Transformer_capacities.py
   :language: python

4. Global features
--------------------

Compare various scenarios
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/4a_Progressive_scenarios.py
   :language: python

Conduct a sensitivity analysis
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/4b_Sensitivity_analysis.py
   :language: python

5. Photovoltaics
--------------------

Consider roofs orientation
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/5a_PV_orientation.py
   :language: python

Include photovoltaics on facades
====================================
.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/5b_PV_facades.py
   :language: python

6. Mobility
--------------------

Add Mobility Layer
====================================
The Layer *Mobility* differs slightly from the other Layers in REHO as this energy carrier is expressed in passenger-kilometers (:math:`pkm`) rather than :math:`kWh`. 
The mobility demand is represented through an hourly passenger-kilometer (:math:`pkm`) profile for each typical day, similarly to the other end-use demand profiles. 
The transport units represented in the model include EVs, ICEs, bikes, electric bikes and public transport. The model can optimize between the different transport modes. However, it is for now recommended to constrain the modal split, as the optimization based on cost does not reflect typical usage of the different transport modes. The `FSO reports <https://www.are.admin.ch/are/fr/home/mobilite/bases-et-donnees/mrmt.html>`_ can be used to find suitable modal split data. 

.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/6a_Mobility_sector.py
   :language: python

Co-optimization
====================================
Multiple districts can be optimized together in order to calculate EV charging exchanges between districts. 
This feature can be used to conduct analyses on EV fleets at the city scale.  
Example 6b demonstrates how to use this feature step by step. Only one district is optimized with external charging option available. The optimized district is also parameterized with a load on EV charger representing incoming EVs from other districts.

7. Interperiod storage
--------------------------

Investigate interperiod storage units in a building facing grid constraints (e.g. a building with limited import or export capacity).

Hydrogen and biomethane storage
====================================

.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/7a_rSOC_IP.py

Hydrogen production and export
====================================

.. literalinclude:: ../../scripts/examples/7b_rSOC_H2_export.py
